And the following lectures.
I want us to start testing an existing springboard application that already has a few rest API points
created and also Sprint Security enabled.
The source code of this application is attached to this lecture and I'm going to use it in the following
lectures.
So before continuing to the next lecture, it would be good if you also download the same source code.
Now in this lecture, I'll give you an overview of the application that we're going to start testing.
So once you download the project that is attached to this lecture, open it in your development environment.
As Maven project, I have it already opened in my intelligent ID and it is a Maven based springboard
application and in this section we will start testing the rest controller and you will find this controller
in source folder main java.
And then if you expand G unit package, there will be a few more packages.
The package that you're looking for is called UI.
If you expand UI package, there will be controllers package and inside of controllers package they
will be users controller.
So this is a risk controller and it exposes a couple of API endpoints.
It has two methods.
One of them is annotated with post mapping, and it is used to create a new user and it has another
method that is annotated with a git mapping and it is used to get a list of users.
Now it is a very simple implementation, and if you see that this code does not have something that
you usually implement, then it is fine.
It is a simple code that will help us get started with our testing and if needed, you can change it
and enhance this code as you wish.
All right.
So we'll start testing method that is called create user.
This one, it is annotated with post mapping and it will be triggered when a HTTP post request is sent
to forward slash users API endpoint.
It will read payload from request body and it will convert the HTTP request body content into an object
of user details, request, model and data type.
Once we have this object, it will be passed to a create user method that is in a service class in the
form of user data transfer object.
Now let's open users service class.
I will open interface and here I define a few methods.
One of them is create user.
So let's open it.
So here's a class that is called user service implementation.
In this class, I inject users repository using constructor based dependency injection.
And then in the create user method, I use this users repository to save user details into a database.
And before I store user details into a database, I generate new user ID, then I encrypt user password
using this print security and then I store the entire user entity into a database using Sprint data
HPA as a database.
For this project, I use in memory each to database and for it to work.
I have added a couple of dependencies to my XML file, so if I open some XML file and have a look at
it, then here I have Sprint Boot, a web dependency and for each two database to work I have added
H to database dependency and sprint boot starter data dependency.
So these two dependencies are for database to work and to enable test in support for this project.
I have also added a couple of dependencies.
One of them is Sprint Boot Start a test dependency.
And because this project uses Sprint security, I have also added sprint security test dependency.
So at this moment this application does not have any test methods created except maybe the default one
which gets added when you create Sprint Boot application.
So let's go back to our test class.
So here I have test folder and in test folder we have Java and then a root package and the only test
class.
Now I have disabled this test class so that it doesn't run, but if you create a new springboard application,
you will have one test class created by default with a very simple test method that doesn't really do
anything.
So to disable this test, I have used disabled annotation.
All right, so let's try running this application and see how it works.
To do that, I will select its main class that is in the route package.
If I open this class, it's called Users Service, Sprint Boot Application.
It has public static void main and I can run it as a regular Java application.
Now by default it will start on default.
Port 88.
My application is now up and running and if I look at the console, Tom got started on port 88, so
now I should be able to open Postman and send the HTTP post request to create a new user.
Let's try.
I will bring in postman.
I will start a new tab and this is going to be a HTTP post request.
So from the dropdown menu I will select a HTTP method post.
Again, I'm selecting post because the method in my controller class, this one that is called create
user is annotated with post mapping annotation.
So the method should be HTTP post.
The request URL is going to be localhost because my tomcat is running on local host default port number
88 because my application started on default port number 8080 and then forward slash users API endpoint
because my controller risk controller is annotated with request mapping annotation and it defines a
path forward slash users now.
My creed use a method reads content of http request body and it converts it into this class user details
request model.
So if I look it up, the JSON payload that I will send in a HTTP request body will need to match the
fields of this class so the field name in JS and payload will need to match field name in this class.
So my JSON will need to have first name, last name, email password and repeat password fields.
Let's add them.
I'll go back to postman and from the top below here I will select Body to provide the body of this request.
Then from this option below here I will select a row and then from the dropdown menu on the right here
I will select JSON and now I can start typing my JSON document so it will need to have first name.
Last name.
Email.
Let's go with test and test dot com.
Password.
And repeat password.
Okay.
So now I can try sending this HTTP post request on the right side.
Here we have send button, so I will click on it.
And I have successful HTTP response.
The status code of this HTTP response is 200 OC and have details of the newly created user.
Now, if I send this request with one of the required fields missing, for example, first name I will
make empty and send it again.
In response I should get back HTP Status Code 400 which stands for badge request.
Let's try.
And now I have a different response.
HTTP status code is 400 by request and it looks like it is working well.
All right.
So let's continue and let's write a few test methods to test this API endpoint and the create user method.